times of peace, are of every-day occurrence between contending armies.amongst those i had occasion to call on at st. louis, was a major ----.he had formerly been engaged in indian warfare, and, having received awound from a rifle-ball, that incapacitated him for active militaryduty, he was living as a retired citizen--his wife's jointure, and anallowance from government, allowing him to keep up a tolerably goodestablishment. he was the owner of several slaves, and, amongst therest, a young woman who was employed as nursemaid in the family. thefirst time i called at his residence, i thought him a man of superiormanners and education, and was much pleased with the visit, which wasconcluded with a promise to renew it on a future day. when, however, irepeated my visit soon after, i found him alone in his study, and hisconstrained manner soon led me to perceive that something unusualperturbed his mind. the cause was soon after explained, for, thenegress, before mentioned, coming into the room on some trifling errand,to my surprise accosted him rather freely. her master suddenly broke outin a paroxysm of rage, swore at her awfully, and accused her in aruffianly way of being insolent to her mistress. then, violently ringinga bell which stood on the table, he summoned a negro lad into the room,and at once despatched him to a neighbour's house to borrow a newraw-hide whip, threatening all the while to flay her alive. in vain theterrified creature pleaded innocence; he would take no excuse, and,although i begged earnestly for him to pass over the offence, and thepoor slave fell on her knees in the greatest terror, he vowed vengeancewith dreadful imprecations. at last the whip came, and, disregardingalike the presence of a stranger, and the entreaties of a woman, hebegan the flagellation with murderous earnest. my interference onlyadded to his ungovernable rage. the raw-hide was new, and the majorbeing a strong, muscular man, every stroke told. the blood soon flowedfrom the back, neck, and breasts, of the poor victim, whose cries, asshe writhed under the savage infliction, entered my soul. they, however,made no impression on her brutal tormentor, who kept vociferating withall his energy to keep her quiet. it was with some difficulty i stood byand witnessed the assault, but i well know my life would be in jeopardyif i attempted to interfere. i, however, screwed up my courage to stay,in the hope that some sense of shame might induce the fellow to hold hishand. this was, however, a delusive hope, for he continued to lay onthe whip until he was exhausted.the girl was now on the floor of the room, moaning piteously, and astream of blood was flowing from her lacerated person, which soaked thematting that covered the floor. her dress was hanging in tatters, andthe blood trickling down her cheeks had a horrifying effect. as soon asthe ruffian was tired, he bid the woman get down stairs and washherself. the miserable creature arose with difficulty, and picking upher apron and turban, which were in different parts of the room, shehobbled out crying bitterly. as soon as she was gone, the major pointedto the blood, and said, "if we did not see that sometimes, there wouldbe no living with the brutes;" to which i replied in terms he could notmisunderstand, and at once left the house, determined never again toenter it--a resolution i religiously kept. i afterwards heard that thismiserable creature was pregnant at the time, a circumstance that wouldhave induced at least some regard to leniency in any man not utterlydebased.those who are acquainted with southern scenes will see nothingextraordinary in this recital, for they are every-day occurrences, andscarcely elicit a remark, unless the perpetrator should happen to be aslave-holding wesleyan or whitfieldite, when, perhaps, he would becalled to some account--his own version of the affair being of courseadmitted _in limine_. many of the slave-holders are an incorrigiblydegraded set of men. it is by no means uncommon for them to inflictchastisement on negresses with whom they are in habitual illicitintercourse, and i was credibly informed that this cruelty was oftenresorted to, to disabuse the mind of a deceived and injured wife whosuspects unfair treatment. this attested fact, disgraceful as it is, canscarcely be wondered at in men who mercilessly subject defenceless womento the lash without a spark of human feeling, or compunction ofconscience. it is little to the credit of united states senators thatthey have not at least made laws to protect women from the barbaroususage of flogging. one would imagine that men, who, perhaps, above allothers in the world, pay homage to the sex, would have established adistinction in this respect; but i apprehend the truth to be, that theyare so far influenced by their wives, who are notoriously jealous oftheir sable rivals, that they have succumbed to their sentiments anddictation.there are many dutch in st. louis, and along the levee you perceiveboarding-houses and groceries kept for their accommodation. these menare generally great drinkers, and think as little of quaffing at a fewdraughts half-a-pint of whiskey, as an englishman would the samequantity of malt liquor. they consume, also, vast quantities of claret.i have frequently seen a couple of these men at a cafe, drink five orbottles without betraying any ill effects. it must, however, beremembered that claret is not so potent as the heavier wines.a few days after my arrival, while standing in the vestibule of myhotel, my attention was drawn to a loud altercation going on at the bar,and as it was evident, from the manner of the parties, that some publicquestion was being discussed, i listened, and ascertained that anobnoxious citizen had been seized for perpetrating a petty act ofrevenge on a neighbour by damaging his horse, and was that day to bepublicly tarred, feathered, and escorted out of the city, as they said,bag and baggage. having ascertained the spot selected for the scene, idetermined to witness it. accordingly, at noon, the appointed hour, irepaired to an open spot of building-land on the carondelet side of thecity. here i found assembled a motley assemblage of citizens, negroes,steamboat-hands, and the general riff-raff of the place. although thecrowd was not so great, the meeting strongly reminded me of those scenesof infamy and disgrace in england--public executions; the conduct of theassembled throng on this occasion being the more decorous of the two.precisely at twelve, the mob made a rush towards one corner of the openspace, from which direction i saw the culprit advancing, in charge ofthirty or forty well-dressed people (the committee appointed for theoccasion being among the number). he was a stout man, and described tome as a great bully; but now he looked completely crest-fallen. as theparty came on, he was hissed by the mob, who, however, kept at a gooddistance from his guard. a man, with a large tin can of smoking pitch, abrush of the kind used in applying the same, and a pillow of feathersunder his arm, followed immediately behind the prisoner, vociferatingloudly. arrived at the spot, the poor wretch was placed on a stool, anda citizen, who had taken a very prominent part in front of theprocession, and who, i was told, was the chief cause of this outrage,stepped in front of him, and pulling out a sheet of paper, read alecture on the enormity of his crime, which wound up with the sentenceabout to be enforced. when this was finished, the man who carried thetar-vessel stepped up, and began, with a scissors, to cut off theculprit's hair, which he did most effectually, flinging portions amongstthe crowd, who scrambled after them. as soon as this was finished, andthe man was stripped to the waist, the brush was dipped into the pitch,and the upper part of his person lathered therewith. not a word escapedhim, but the individual who had taken so prominent a part in thepunishment, kept giving directions to the operator to put it on thick.even his eyes and ears were not spared. as soon as this part of theoperation was complete, the bag of feathers was ripped open by aby-stander, and the contents stuck thickly on the parts besmeared withtar, amidst the deafening cheers of the spectators, who were by thistime in such frantic excitement that i began to fear a tragedy wouldensue, especially as many of them shouted, "now hang the varmint! hanghim!" this proposal was eagerly seconded by the mob. this was, however,resolutely overruled by his keepers. the appearance presented by thevictim, in this peculiarly american dress, was ludicrous in the extreme,and _looked_ very comfortable. as soon as this part of the exhibitionwas finished, a man, with a small drum, followed by the mob, with yellsand execrations drove the culprit before them at a run. the poor wretchran like a deer from his pursuers, who followed at his heels, shoutingfrantically, until he reached the brink of the river, where a boat waswaiting to take him off. he dashed into it, and was at once rowed intothe middle of the stream, out of reach of his tormentors, who, i quitebelieve, would have administered more severe lynch-law if they couldhave got hold of him, for their passions were wrought up to the highestpitch of excitement. one feature in the scene i could not helpremarking--the negroes all appeared in high glee, and many of themactually danced with joy. i did not wonder at this, for the negroesalways seemed to exult if a white man was in disgrace; which, after all,is no more than might be expected from a class of men tyrannized over asthe coloured people are there, and is one of the results of theoppressive system that exacts everything that human labour can furnish,without remuneration, and without (in by far the greater number ofinstances) any approach to sympathy or grateful feeling. this alone,without taking into consideration the outrages inflicted on the race bytheir cruel oppressors, supplies a sufficient cause for such a tendency,if every other were wanting.passing through the principal street the day before i left st louis, anassembly of men, chiefly overseers and negro dealers, who stood at theentrance of a large store, attracted my attention. large placards, witha description of various lots of negroes to be submitted to publiccompetition, soon told me i should now be able to gratify my curiosityby witnessing a missouri slave-vendue. a man with a bell, which he rangmost energetically at the door, shortly after summoned the company, theauction being about to commence. on a table inside, a negress, of alittle over middle age, was standing, vacantly gazing with grief-worncountenance on the crowd that now thronged to the table. on the floorstood two children, of about the ages of ten and thirteen respectively.the auctioneer, with the customary volubility of such men in america,began by stating, that the lots now to be offered were the remnants of apreceding sale, which he gratuitously observed had been a mostsatisfactory one, and after dilating with some energy on the goodqualities of the woman before us, whose face brightened up a little onhearing such a flattering account of her good qualities, he earnestlyrequested a bidding. the poor creature was evidently in ill-health.after the most revolting questions had been put to her, and her personexamined by the competitors with disgraceful familiarity, she waspronounced all but worthless, "used up," as one of the company observed,and was, after much demur on the part of the auctioneer, knocked downfor two hundred dollars; this sum being, as he remarked, but the moietyof what she ought to have realized. she was then roughly told to get offthe table, and take her stand near it, at a place pointed out by herpurchaser, who was a rollicking-looking, big-whiskered fellow, with animmense leghorn hat, the brim of which was lined with black, and havinga broad black ribbon round the crown. as the poor woman got down, shecast a furtive glance at her children, who, although the auctioneercertainly tried to prevent it, were sold to two individuals, neither ofwhom was the purchaser of the parent. the poor woman looked about ingreat despair while the bidding was going on. it was in vain i soughtone sympathizing look in that company; but how could it be expected,when it consisted of men long inured to such heartless scenes--men whosehearts were case-hardened by the impious traffic they were now engagedin. i was, however, pleased to hear afterwards that the purchasers allresided in st. louis, and that the woman would often see herchildren--poor amends it is true for a cruel separation, but moresatisfactory than such cases generally are.chapter iv."where will-o'-the-wisps and glow-worms shine,in bulrush and in brake;where waving mosses shroud the pine,and the cedar grows, and the poisonous vineis spotted like the snake."--longfellow.from st. louis, on the missouri river, i took passage to new orleans, inone of those magnificent steamers that crowd the inland waters of theamerican continent, and which, sumptuously furnished as they are, havenot inaptly been termed "floating palaces." we had a prosperous passageas far as the junction of the ohio with the mississippi, where the boatstruck the branches of a large tree, that had been washed into the bedof the stream, and was there stuck fast, root downwards. this formidablechevaux-de-frise (or snag, as it was termed by the captain) fortunatelydid not do much damage to the vessel, although at first an alarm wasraised that she was sinking, and much confusion ensued. thisapprehension was, however, soon dissipated by the report of thecarpenter, whose account of the damage was so far favourable, that afterextrication by backing the vessel, and a few temporary repairs, she wasagain got under headway.the pellucid waters of the ohio, as they enter the turbid rushingcurrent of the mississippi, which is swollen by the illinois and othertributaries, has a remarkable effect, the clear current of the formerriver refusing, for a considerable distance, to mingle with the murkystream of the latter, and forming a visible blue channel in itscentre--a phenomenon i thought allegorical of the slave-stainedcondition of the one state, and the free soil of the other, for whileohio is free from the curse of slavery, the banks of the mississippihave for centuries been deep dyed in the life's blood of the oppressedafrican.our vessel was borne on the rushing waters with great impetuosity, themaddening current of the mississippi seeming to carry everything beforeit. as we proceeded we constantly saw trees topple over into the river,the banks of which are continually widening, and which in many parts hasthe appearance of a lake after a storm, impregnated with debris. thetrees, thus washed into the bed of the river, sink root downwards andmake the navigation perilous, as i have before described. we metnumerous steamers coming up the stream, one of them having a freight ofindians from florida, removing to the western frontier, under thesurveillance of u.s. soldiery and government agents. the compulsoryremoval of indians, from one remote state to another, whenever newterritory is needed, forms a disgraceful feature in internal americanpolicy. transported to new hunting grounds, the poor indians are broughtinto contact with other tribes, when feuds arise from feelings ofjealousy, and the new-comers are often annihilated in a few years. manytribes have thus become totally extinct, and the remainder are rapidlybecoming so. as the steamer passed us with her freight of red men theyset up a loud yell, which reverberated through the forests on theriver-shores. it sounded to me very much like defiance, and probablywas, for they execrate the white men as hereditary enemies, and feeldeeply the wrongs inflicted on their people.all the steamers we met were more or less crowded with passengers, thevisages of many of whom bore traces of fever and ague, and who were,doubtless, removing to a healthier climate. this insidious disease oftenterminates fatally in the cities and districts skirting the swamps oflouisiana, and, to avoid its baneful effects, the more affluent peoplemigrate south-west or north when the sickly season sets in. the yellowfever is also very fatal in such situations, and annually claims numbersof victims.we had by this time reached that latitude where perpetual summer reigns.the banks of the mighty mississippi, which has for ages rolled on inincreasing grandeur, present to the eye a wilderness of sombre scenery,indescribably wild and romantic. the bays, formed by the current, arechoked with palmetto and other trees, and teem with alligators,water-snakes, and freshwater turtle, the former basking in the sun inconscious security. overhead, pelicans, paroquets, and numberless other"strange bright birds on their starry wings,bear the rich hues of all glorious things;"while the gorgeous magnolia, in luxuriant bloom, and a thousand otherevergreens, on shore, vie with voluptuous aquatic flowers to bewilderand delight the astonished traveller, accustomed hitherto only to themore unassuming productions of the sober north. everything here was new,strange, and solemn. the gigantic trees, encircled by enormous vines,and heavily shrouded in grey funereal moss, mournfully waving in thebreeze--the doleful night-cry of the death-bird and thewhip-poor-will--the distant bugle of the advancing boats--the moan ofthe turbid current beneath--the silent and queenly moon above, appearingnearer, larger, and brighter than in our cooler latitudes--the sultryatmosphere--and most of all, perhaps, the sense of the near vicinity ofdeath in this infected region--oppressed my spirit with an ominousfeeling of solemnity and awe.as we passed the plantations which here and there varied the scene,gangs of negroes could be seen at labour--their sturdy overseers, ofruffianly mien, prowling sulkily about, watching every motion of thebondsmen, whip in hand; which weapon they applied with the most wantonfreedom, as if the poor sufferers were as destitute of physicalsensation, as they themselves were of moral or humane feeling. armedwith a huge bowie-knife and pistols, these embruted creatures were verycut-throats in appearance; and it is well known there, that theirconduct in general towards those they lord over, justifies theappellation i have given them.the steamer halted at intervals to take in wood, which is invariablyused, instead of coal as in england. this is piled in parrallelograms onthe banks--the logs being split longitudinally. this forms a source ofgood profit, and is, in many instances, the chief maintenance of thesqualid settlers of these plague-stricken and unwholesome places. afterthe measurement of the pile by the mate or captain, the deck-passengersand boat-hands stow it away in the vicinity of the furnaces--it beingpart of the terms of passage, that the lower order of passengers shallassist in the operation. this is much disliked by the latter, and manyof the germans of this class on board, endeavoured to escape thelaborious duty by hiding amongst the packages on deck. a general searchwas, however, instituted by the officers of the vessel, just before itstopped at a wooding-station--and the skulkers were brought out, amidstthe clamorous jeers of their fellows. the class of passengers i havejust referred to, consisted chiefly of germans and irish, who, althoughthere is no professed distinction, bargain for a deck-passage, thecharge being better suited to their means. amongst the objects thatarrested my attention, as our vessel floated majestically down theturbid current, were gibbets standing on the banks, depending fromseveral of which were short chains, doubtless required occasionally incarrying out this kind of discipline. as the horrifying objects occurredat intervals of a few miles, i at first imagined they were cranes usedto lower bales of cotton into the holds of vessels, and addressing apassenger whose physiognomy prepossessed me in his favour, and who hadseveral times shown a disposition to impart the knowledge he possessedconcerning the objects around, he soon convinced me of my mistake,adding, that such engines were as necessary to the proper discipline ofthe negroes in that latitude as the overseer himself. he then proceededto detail several instances of fugitive negroes being dragged in captureto the foot of the gallows, where, with halter-encircled necks, theywere made not only to acknowledge the error committed and exposeaccessories, but "pumped dry," as he facetiously termed it, as to theintended flight of other negroes on the estate. sometimes, he said, itwas necessary to suspend the culprit for a moment or so, to intimidate,but this was only in cases where the victim (he used the word rascal)was inclined to be sullen, and refused readily to give the requiredinformation. i inquired whether it ever occurred that actual executiontook place; to this my new acquaintance replied, "wall, yes, where thenigger had dar'd to strike a white man;" but that it was usual to go toa magistrate first, in such cases. the appearance of these gibbets,after the information i had received respecting them from myslave-holding acquaintance, made my flesh creep as we steamed onwards,the more so as, in many of the grounds skirting the river, where thesesombre murky-looking objects presented themselves to the gaze of thetraveller, gangs of negroes were at work, looking up complacently for amoment as the vessel glided by. i was subsequently told by a gentlemanwho had been long resident in the state of louisiana, that no punishmentso effectually strikes with terror the negro mind, as that of hanging,the very threat being sufficient to subdue (in general) the mosthardened offenders. this i do not wonder at, for perhaps there are fewfield-hands living in the south but have, at some time or other,witnessed the barbarities used at a negro execution, sudden death bypistol or bowie knife being far preferable to the brutal sneers andindignities heaped upon the victim by the cowardly assassins whosuperintend such operations.the monotony of the scenes which had for a thousand miles rendered thepassage irksome, began to break as we approached natchez. this placetakes its name from the natch-i-toches, or red river, which falls intothe mississippi, the abbreviation being a corruption of the originalindian name, which is as above stated. the town stands on a declivity orbluff, and is of considerable extent. i did not visit it, although theboat halted for a considerable time, to land letter-bags and passengers.i was informed by a fellow-passenger of gentlemanly bearing, whoresided in the vicinity, that it was a dissipated place, and gamblingthe chief occupation of its inhabitants. the locality has beenremarkable for landslips, owing to the siliceous nature of the soil; isaw traces of a fearful catastrophe of the kind which had, some timebefore, buried or destroyed many of the houses and their occupants, theenormous mass having also sunk several steam-boats and other vesselswhich were moored at the foot of the bluff under the town.after leaving natchez, we steamed away with renewed vigour towards thatcentre of slavery and dissipation, new orleans, and were in due coursemoored to the levee, which extends the whole river-length of the city,and is about a mile in extent. the first news i heard, and which alarmedme not a little, was that the yellow fever was at this time raging inthe city. new orleans is just fifty-four miles from the mouth of themississippi, and being built at the time of the orleans regency,contains many ancient structures. its inhabitants, even to this day, areto a great extent either french or of gaelic origin. it lies exceedinglyflat, which causes the locality to be unhealthy and ill-suited toeuropean constitutions; the soil is, however, fertile and rich; this is,perhaps, to be accounted for by the constant irrigation it undergoesfrom the overflowing of the mississippi, which, like another nile,periodically submerges the country around its banks. the town issituated on the east side of the river.the vast quantity of shipping of all classes in the harbour is a verystriking feature in this extensive and wealthy city. the bad eminence towhich new orleans has attained is painful to contemplate. its wealth ispurchased by the blood and tears of thousands of slaves, who are dailyexposed like cattle in its markets; and this fact operates on the mindof an englishman to the prejudice of its inhabitants. i was myselffilled with disgust towards the whites, as well as pity towards theblacks, on beholding, immediately on our arrival, a gang of forty orfifty negroes, of both sexes, and nearly all ages, working in shackleson the wharf. these, i was informed, were principally capturedfugitives; they looked haggard and care-worn, and as they toiled withtheir barrows with uncovered heads, under a burning sun, they weremercilessly lashed with a heavy slave-whip, by a tall, athletic negro,who acted as overseer, and who, with refined cruelty, dispensed thepunishment alike on stout men, slender youths, and thin attenuatedfemales. our arrival having attracted the notice of the gang, andinduced a momentary halt in their work, the unfeeling wretch commenceda furious onslaught with the whip, each crack of which, followed, as itwas, by the groans or cries of the sufferer, roused the indignantfeelings of the passengers, many of whom were from the free states, andwho simultaneously raised a yell of execration which made the welkinresound, and caused the cruel driver to stand aghast. this demonstrationdrew a remonstrance from the captain, who represented to the passengersthe danger of such conduct, and concluded by observing that if it wasrepeated, it would probably arouse the indignation of the citizens, whowere very bigoted. he should be sorry, he added, to be obliged to putthe vessel about again, a proceeding that might be necessary for thesafety of all on board, unless they were more cautious. some of thepassengers seemed disposed to dispute this argument, but they wereoverruled by the majority, who, better acquainted with southern usages,prejudices, and barbarities, thought that discretion under thecircumstances would be the better part of valour. i afterwards foundthat the captain's view was a strictly correct one, for so jealous arethe citizens of men entertaining hostility to the pro-slavery cause,that spies are often sent on board newly-arrived boats, to ascertain ifmissionaries are amongst the passengers. these spies, with jesuiticalart, introduce themselves by making apparently casual inquiries onleading topics of those they suspect, and if their end is subserved,basely betray them, or, what is more usual, keep them under strictsurveillance, with a view to their being detected in disseminatingabolition doctrines amongst the slaves, when they are immediately madeamenable to the laws, and are fined or imprisoned.on landing, i hired a sorry conveyance, driven by a creole and drawn bya mule, and had my luggage taken to a house in the suburbs, where i hadbeen recommended to take up my residence during my stay, which, owing tothe presence of the yellow fever, that daily carried off numbers ofvictims, i had determined, contrary to my original intention, should beshort.the crowds of people on the levee, attracted by the constant arrival ofsteam-boats, had a motley appearance; many of these were rough-lookingfellows, fit for any occupation, most of them being armed with bowieknives, the silver hilts of which could often be seen peeringsuspiciously from under the waistcoat, in the inner lining of which acase or scabbard of leather is sewn for the reception of the weapon. thevast proportion of blacks in the streets soon struck me. i should thinkthey were five to one of the white population. these, for the most part,wore in wretched plight; many of them begged of the passers-by, whichpractice i found afterwards to be very general, especially in thesuburbs of the city.amongst the passengers on our boat, was a person, apparently of thebetter class, who was met at the levee by two black servants with acarriage. i noticed particularly, that, although the negroes touchedtheir hats, and inquired how he was (by which i concluded he had beenabsent for some time), he did not deign to answer their inquiries. fromtheir timidity, it was evident that he was an overbearing man, and theimperial haughtiness manifested in giving them his orders, confirmedthis impression. this individual was one of those who condemned thedemonstration i have noticed, when the boat first approached the levee.after a day's rest at my boarding-house, i walked through the city, andafterwards visited the calaboose, which in new orleans is a mart forproduce, as well as a place of detention and punishment for slaves. herethose owners who are averse to correcting their slaves in a rigorousmanner at home, send them to be flogged. the brutal way in which this isdone at the calaboose, strikes terror into the negro mind, and thethreat is often sufficient to tame the most incorrigible. instances, iwas told, have often occurred of negroes expiring under the severity ofthe discipline here; but it was remarked that the pecuniary lossattendant on such casualties made the keepers careful not to exceed thephysical endurance of the sufferer, and that they were so wellacquainted with negro constitutions that it was a rare exception fordeath to ensue. the punishment, however, almost always resulted in thevictim being invalided and unfitted for exertion for a considerabletime.i believe new orleans to be as vile a place as any under the sun; aperfect ghetto or cursed place; in fact, it is the rendezvous ofrenegades of all nations, and hordes of negro traders and planters areto be seen flocking round the hotels. these are extensive patrons of thegambling-houses; and the faro, _rouge-et-noir,_ roulette, and otherestablishments, fitted up with gorgeous saloons, are generally crowdedwith them. as you pass, you may observe the frequenters of such placesin dozens, deeply engaged in play, while the teller of the establishmentsits at a table with a huge heap of spanish doubloons or mexican milldollars before him, which he adds to or takes from with the tact of abanker's clerk, as the chances of luck may arise. violence and woodshedhave been indigenous to this city from time immemorial, and feuds areinstantly settled by an appeal to the bowie knife, or ever-readyrevolver. highway robberies are very frequent, and i was told it wasmore than your life was worth to be out after dark, in certainlocalities, unless armed and on your guard. the police authorities are,nevertheless, vigilant, and the magistrates severe, so that manydesperadoes are brought to justice.the suburbs of new orleans lie low, and the swampy soil emits apoisonous miasma. this is, without doubt, the cause of virulentepidemics that visit the city annually with direful effect. thousandsfly to the northern states, to escape the contagion; but there are manywho, for want of means, are obliged to risk a continued residence atsuch periods, and it is amongst those that the yellow fever, the ague,or the flux, plays dreadful havoc. it is the custom for the smallstore-keepers, as well as the more affluent merchants, to confide theiraffairs at such seasons to others, and i have frequently seenadvertisements in the _new orleans picayune_, and other papers, offeringa gratuity to persons to undertake the charge in their absence.the heat, although the summer was not far advanced, was excessive, andthe thousands of mosquitoes that filled the air, especially after a fallof rain, when they seemed to burst into life in myriads spontaneously,kept up an increasing annoyance. at night this was ten-fold, fornotwithstanding the gauze awnings, or bars, as they are called, whichcompletely enveloped the bedstead, to the floor of the room, they foundadmittance with pertinacious audacity, and kept up a buzzing and hummingabout my ears that almost entirely deprived me of rest. this unceasingnuisance in the hot season, makes it difficult to keep one's equanimityof temper, and has, probably, much to do with that extreme irascibilityshown by the southern inhabitants of the american continent.the appearance and situation of hundreds of quadroon females in thiscity, soon attracted my attention, and deserve notice. i saw numbers ofthem not only at the bazaars or shops making purchases, but riding insplendid carriages through the streets. so prodigal are these poordeluded creatures of their money, that, although slaves and liable toimmediate sale at the caprice of their keepers, they have often beenknown to spend in one afternoon 200 dollars in a shopping excursion.endowed with natural talents, they are readily instructed in everyaccomplishment, requisite to constitute them charming companions. oftenas a carriage dashes by, the pedestrian is able to catch a glimpse ofsome jewelled and turbaned sultana, of dazzling beauty, attended by hermaid, who does not always possess a sinecure, for the mistress is oftenhaughty, proud, and petulant, very hard to please, and exacts greatdeference from her inferiors. many of them live in regal splendour, andeverything that wealth and pampered luxury can bestow is theirs, as longas their personal charms remain; but when their beauty has ceased togratify the passions of their masters, they are, in most instances, castoff, and frequently die in a condition which presents the greatestpossible contrast to their former gay but not happy life."oh that they had earlier died,sleeping calmly side by side,where the tyrant's power is o'er,and the fetter galls no more."many of such poor outcasts are to be found scattered all over the slavestates, some employed as field hands, but in general they are selectedas domestics, their former habits of luxury and ease rendering theirconstitutions too delicate for the exposure of ordinary field labour. itis not, however, as the reader will have observed, commiseration thatsaves them from that degradation. as soon as beauty begins to fade,which in southern climes it does prematurely, the unfeeling owners ofthese unfortunates succeed in ridding themselves of what is nowconsidered a burden, by disposing of the individual to some heartlesstrader. this is done unknown to the victim, and the news, when itreaches her, drives her almost frantic; she at once seeks herperfidious paramour, and finds to her dismay, that he has been gonesome days on a tour to the provinces, and is, perhaps, a thousand milesoff. tears and protestations avail her nothing, the trader isinexorable, she belongs to him by law, and go she must; at length,having vainly expended her entreaties, she becomes calm, and submits insullen apathy to her wretched fate. this is the ordinary history of suchcases.considering it unsafe to remain longer in this infected city, from thereports that the fever was gaining ground, i now made preparations forleaving new orleans, and as i had made an engagement to manage theaffairs of a gentleman in florida, during his absence at washington, idetermined to proceed thither with the least possible delay. infurtherance of this object i made inquiries for a conveyance by water tost. marks, giving the preference to steam. in this object i was,however, disappointed, and was obliged to take a passage on board abrig, about to sail for that obscure port. the vessel was towed down tothe balize or mouth of the mississippi, in company with two others, by adeparting steamer, which had on board the mail for bermuda and st.george's island. arrived at the balize, whose banks for several milesare overflowed by the sea, i saw a small fleet of vessels, some outwardand some inward bound. amongst these was a united states ship of war,of great beauty, carrying heavy guns. a boat from this vessel, in chargeof an officer, boarded us, and delivered to the captain a sealed packet,which i understood to be a dispatch, addressed to general taylor, theofficer in command of the troops operating against the indians inflorida.the coast about the balize is low and swampy, and everywhere abounds inrush and cane brakes which give its sea-beach a desolate appearance.these morasses harbour thousands of alligators, whose roar had asingular effect as it rose above the breeze. flocks of aquatic birdswere to be seen on every side, the most numerous being the pelican, anda bird of the cotinga species, about the size of an english throstle,the plumage of which, being jet black and flamingo red, had a beautifuleffect in the sunshine, as they flew or settled in thousands on thecanes.our passage across the gulf of mexico was a favourable one, but whenwithin forty miles of our destination, the vessel struck on a hiddensand-bank. the fog was so dense, that the captain had been mistaken inhis reckoning, and had taken a wrong course. for a considerable time wewere in great jeopardy, and every attempt to get the ship again afloatwas unavailing; and, had not the weather been moderate, there is littledoubt but that she would have been lost, and our lives placed in greatperil. after some hours' exertion, during which an anchor was lost, anda quantity of iron thrown overboard, we had the satisfaction to findthat the vessel was adrift. this was a great relief to us, for had agale sprung up in the night, which was closing in, we must have taken tothe boat, and abandoned the vessel, a perilous undertaking, from whichwe all felt too happy to have escaped. i was told by the captain thatthe coast here abounds with hidden sand-banks of the description we hadencountered. this, perhaps, together with the poor harbour accommodationin florida, accounts for the small size of the vessels which generallytrade there.the desolate look of the coast from the deck of the vessel, did notconvey to my mind a very favourable impression of the country, and thehostile disposition of the indians tended not a little to exciteforebodings of evil, that at one time almost induced me to abandon myintention, and return to the north. these apprehensions were, however,allayed by the representations of the captain of the vessel, who statedthat the indians seldom attempted to molest armed parties, and that anunderstanding with the government was daily expected, through the recentcapture of some important sachems or chiefs, under whose influence andleadership hostilities had been carried on. this information reassuredme, and i determined to proceed, although i found afterwards that it wasalmost entirely a misrepresentation, which, however, i cannot believewas wilful, as the captain would have had me for a passenger on thereturn voyage.i soon after landed in a boat from the shore. the bay or harbour of st.marks is not attractive, neither is the town, which presents a desolateappearance. the houses or stores are chiefly of wood, painted white, thevenetian blinds of the houses being green, as in most parts of theunited states. the hotel-entrances were crowded with loungers, insnow-white clothing, large leghorn or palmetto hats, and fancy-colouredshirts, who smoked cigars incessantly, and generally discussed withenergy the inroads of the indians, or other leading topics of the day.the houses are low and irregularly built, and the appearance of thewhole place and its inhabitants, as far as i could see, wore aforbidding aspect, and was indicative of anything but prosperity.my next stage was to tallahassee by railroad, through a desolate-lookingcountry, whose soil was sand, and whose vegetation looked stunted,presenting little to cheer the senses, or call forth remark; in fact,everything around told of a country whose centre is flourishing, butwhose frontiers are a wilderness. just before we started, awell-dressed negro, apparently a footman or butler, applied for a seatin the carriage. he was told by the station-keeper, that there was noconveyance for "niggers" this train, and he must wait for the followingone. he at first disputed his right to refuse him a passage in thecarriage, which roused the ire of the station-keeper, who threatened tokick him if he was not soon off. this seemed to awe him, for he quietlyleft the station, muttering, however, as he went, his intention ofreporting the circumstance to colonel gambole. this caused me to makesome inquiry about the colonel whose name he had mentioned, and who ilearned was his master. i was also informed that no negroes in thatdistrict were so insolent, owing to the indulgence with which all hishands were treated. i could see, however, that the negro had differentmen to deal with here, and if he had not taken his departure, he would,without a doubt, have been kicked or felled to the ground, on the leastfurther provocation--a course pursued without hesitation in cases wherea negro assumes anything like equality in the south.chapter v."the fragrant birch above him hungher tassels in the sky,and many a vernal blossom sprung,and nodded careless by.but there was weeping far away;and gentle eyes for him,with watching many an anxious day,were sorrowful and dim."--bryant.florida, in which state i now found myself, is divided into east, west,and middle. it is a wild extent of country, about 300 miles from northto south. the king of spain held possession of the territory in 1810,but it was afterwards ceded by treaty to the federal government. it wasdiscovered in 1497 by sebastian cabot. st. augustine is the capital ofeast, and pensacola of west, florida. this country is, for the mostpart, a howling wilderness, and is never likely to become thicklypopulated. the dreary pine-barrens and sand-hills are slightlyundulating, and are here and there thickly matted with palmetto.in pursuance of my original design, i had now to penetrate nearly ahundred miles into the interior; and, as the indians and fugitivenegroes were scouring that part of the country in hostile bands, icontemplated this part of my route with no little anxiety. i determined,however, to proceed. the journey lay through a wild country, intersectedwith streams and rivers, every one of which swarmed with alligators.this, although not a very pleasant reflection, did not trouble me much,as i had by this time become acquainted with the propensities of thesecreatures, and knew that they were not given to attacking white men,unless provoked or wounded, although a negro or a dog is never safewithin their reach. they are, however, repulsive-looking creatures, andit is not easy to divest the mind of apprehension when in theirvicinity.my destination was an inlet of the sea, called deadman's bay, fromwhence it was my intention, after transacting some business i hadundertaken, to take passage by steamer to cuba, intending to return tothe continent, after a limited stay there, and on some of the adjacentislands. in this, however, i was disappointed, as i shall by-and-byshow. my plan was to travel by easy stages under escort, and encamp outat night; so, having secured the services of six men, who were wellarmed and mounted on horseback, and having furnished ourselves with atent and other necessaries, which were carried by individuals of theparty, we left tallahassee, on our way inland, under a scorching sun. wecould proceed but slowly after reaching the pine-barrens, the soil ofwhich is loose sand, and at every step the animals we rode sank to thefetlock, which caused them to be greatly fatigued at the close of theday.at night-fall, after selecting our ground adjacent to a river, wepitched our tent, and supper was prepared. this consisted of jerkedvenison (dried by a slow fire), broiled turkey, two of which we had shotupon our way, bread, and coffee. one of our party walked round ourposition as a sentinel, and was relieved every two hours; it beingnecessary to keep a vigilant look out, on account of the indian andrunaway negro marauders, who roam through these wilds in bands, andsubsist chiefly in plundering farms and small parties. a huge fire ofresinous pine branches (which are plentiful in these solitudes, andstrew the ground in all directions, blackened with fire and age) wasblazing to keep off the wolves and catamounts, whose terrific yells, inconjunction with other beasts, prevented our sleeping. they did not,however, venture within rifle shot. the indians, on attacking smallparties, have a practice of imitating the cry of the wolf, and thiscircumstance being known to us, tended not a little to raise oursuspicions on hearing the fearful howlings that rang through thewilderness.in the morning, we proceeded through barren sand-plains, skirted withdense hammocks (jungles) and forests. we were much annoyed by mosquitoesand sand-flies, which kept the whole party in discomfort from theirattacks. dusky-looking deer-flies constantly alighted on our faces andhands, and made us jump with the severity of their bites, as did also alarge fly, of brilliant mazarine blue colour, about the size of a humblebee, the name of which i have forgotten.in crossing one of the numerous streams, we had to wade or swim ourhorses over, an incident occurred which rather alarmed me. i was on ahorse of that arabian blood, build, and spirit, so common insaddle-horses in america, and a little in advance of the party, when ireached a river that intersected our track, and which we had to cross.after allowing the animal to quench its thirst, i applied spurs andurged it into the stream; it being averse from some cause to take thewater. the stream was, however, deeper than i anticipated, and the horseimmediately began to stumble and flounder in an alarming manner,showing that the river bed was uneven and rocky. about half-way acrosswas a small island, that divided the stream, which after much difficultyhe reached; resting here about a minute, i again urged him forward, butthe animal seemed very reluctant to go. he wheeled short round, snortedloudly as if in fear, and was evidently in unusual alarm. after somecoaxing, he, however, plunged into the water, and i expected to be ableto gain the opposite shore in advance of my companions, but just as wewere half-way between the little island and the opposite bank, which wasvery steep, the horse again became restive, rearing as if dreadfullyfrightened. i had the greatest difficulty to keep the saddle, which wasa high mexican one, covered with bear-skin, and as easy to ride in as achair. i now began to suspect the cause of his alarm. the stream was oneof those black-looking currents that flow noiselessly along, and whichin florida always harbour the largest-sized alligators. when i firstcame to it, i remembered this, and thinking to frighten off any of theselurkers that might be in the vicinity, i had dashed precipitately intothe stream. this practice, or shouting loudly and firing a pistol intothe water, usually succeeds. i soon found out, however, that thepresence of one of the ugly creatures was the cause of the horse'strepidation, for, within six feet of us, i discerned a pair of eyes, setin huge brown excrescences, fixed intently on me and my horse, withmalicious gaze. i knew they belonged to a veteran, and dreading lest itssnout might be within two feet of my leg, for the old alligators boastenormous length of jaw, i sat tailor-wise in my saddle, and levelled myrifle at the horrid object; the reptile had, however, observed mymovements, and disappeared beneath the surface; i instantly dischargedmy piece in the direction he had taken, and certainly gave him a lesson,for the water around me was directly after tinged with blood; he wasprobably hurt severely, or he might have resented my temerity. i soonafter reached the shore in safety, where i was speedily joined by theescort, who saw nothing of the reptile in their way across, and who,being men bred amongst such scenes, and totally divested of fear, atonce took the water, although they had witnessed the encounter.the cayman of south america is very ferocious, and is popularly styledthe hyena of the alligator tribe. this savage creature will instantlyattack a man or a horse, and on this account the indians of chili,before wading a stream, take the precaution of using long poles, toascertain its presence or to drive it away. naturalists assert that thecayman is not found in the north american rivers, and i should imaginethis to be correct, for, although engaged in many alligator hunts, ifound from personal experience and minute inquiry that the species foundin north america is harmless if unmolested.after a laborious ride we arrived at fort andrews, where we found amilitary station of u.s. infantry. we halted here for several days, ihaving business requiring my attention, and ourselves and our beastsneeding to recruit our strength, before continuing our route to the bay.the forest scenery here almost defies description. immense cedars, andother lordly trees, rear their gigantic and lightning-scathed heads overtheir smaller and less hardy but graceful neighbours; cactuses,mimonias, and tropical shrubs and flowers, which at home are to be seenonly in conservatories or green-houses are here in profusion,"and plants, at whose name the verse feels loath,fill the place with a monstrous undergrowth,prickly, and pulpous, and blistering, and blue,livid, and starred with a lurid hue,"while innumerable forms of insect and reptile life, from the tiny yellowscorpion to the murky alligator of eighteen feet in length, give aforbidding aspect to the scene. racoons, squirrels, wild turkeys,pelicans, vultures, quails, doves, wild deer, opossums, chickmuncks,white foxes, wild cats, wolves,--are ever and anon to be seen among thehigh palmetto brakes, and the alligators in the bayous arid swamps,"make night hideous" with their discordant bellowings and the vile odourwhich they emit. the _tout ensemble_ of the place brings to recollectionthose striking lines of hood,"o'er all there hung the shadow of a fear,a sense of mystery the spirit daunted,and said, as plain as whisper in the ear,the place is haunted."during my stay at fort andrews, a large detachment of u.s. troopsarrived, continuing a campaign against the recreant indians and negroes.the appearance of the men and officers was wretched in the extreme; theyhad for weeks been beating through swamps and hammocks, thickly mattedwith palmetto bush, which had torn their undress uniforms in tatters,searching for an invisible enemy, who, thoroughly acquainted with theeverglades, defied every attempt at capture. the whole party lookedharassed, disappointed, and forlorn. general taylor was with and hadcommand of this detachment, which was about 400 strong. as i had heardthis man vauntingly spoken of in the north, as the brave cotemporary ofscott, i felt no little curiosity to see him. his appearance surprisedme. he was a burly, unmilitary-looking man, of most forbidding aspect,and much more like a yeoman than a soldier. a sword, much out of place,dangled awkwardly by his side, and was the only badge of his professionabout him, except a black leathern cap; otherwise, he was habited as aprivate citizen. his small army encamped below the fort; and, as ithought, in most un-general style, he superintended the erection of hisown marquee. he had with him several negroes, who were his bodyservants; and the coarse epithets he applied to them during theoperation did not prepossess me in his favour, or, i thought, reflectmuch credit on his refinement.at nightfall cries of distress arose from the marquee, and as iapproached it i could distinctly hear one of the bondsmen earnestlypleading for mercy. listening for a moment, i heard this distinguishedgeneral exclaiming vociferously, and belabouring the poor negro heavilywith a raw-hide whip; most likely venting the spleen he felt at hisnon-success against the indians, the expedition having hitherto beenunsuccessful. the poor negro had offended his master, by some trivialact, no doubt, and in southern style he was correcting him, without muchregard, it is true, to publicity. this, in southern latitudes, is socommon, that it is thought little of; and the occurrence caused on thisoccasion only a passing remark from those present. the negro was hisown, and he had a right, it was stated, to correct him, as and when hepleased; who could dispute it? for my own part, i entertained the mostabhorrent feelings towards a man, who, without sense of shame, or decentregard for his station, thus unblushingly published his infamy amongststrangers, and this man a would-be patriot, too, and candidate for thepresidential chair, which, it will be remembered, he afterwardsobtained. i was told that flogging his negroes was a favourite pastimewith this eminently-distinguished general, and that he was by no meansliked by his officers or men. his appearance bespoke his tyrannicaldisposition; and this, coupled with incapacity, there is little doubt,conduced to make it necessary for him to relinquish his command of thearmy of the south, which he did not long after, being succeeded, ibelieve, by general armstead.as i mentioned before, the force that accompanied him was in forlorncase, reminding me strongly of shakspere's description of falstaff'sragged regiment. it consisted chiefly of raw, undrilled troops, quiteunused to discipline, but, perhaps, as effective as veterans in theservice in which they were employed, the adroitness of the enemy,accustomed to the interminable swamps, hammocks, and cane-brakes whichabound in this country, quite paralyzing the energies of the men, anddestroying that _esprit du corps_ without which no success can beexpected in an army.several indian sachems or chiefs accompanied the command; these werefine-looking fellows, but appeared exhausted from long marching throughthe wilderness one of these, named powell, particularly attracted mynotice; he was a very interesting young man, of feminine aspect, andlittle resembling his stalwart companions. he had originally beencaptured, but by kind treatment had been brought over to friendly views,and was now acting as a guide. it was stated that his father was muchincensed against him, and had employed emissaries to despatch himsecretly. a few months after this campaign i heard that he was shotwhile out hunting; no doubt, at the instigation of his unnatural parent,who preferred his death to his continuing in league with white men.leaving fort andrews, i now pushed onward to deadman's bay. the countrywe passed through was much the same as i have before described; thejourney took us the better part of two days. on the way we saw a herd ofwild cattle, which scoured the plain in consternation on espying ourparty; urging on our horses, we tried to bring one down, but theyoutstripped us. some miles farther on, and near a thick hammock, about aquarter of a mile a-head, a huge black bear stood snuffing the air; weagain put spurs to our horses to try to intercept his retreat, but hewas too quick for us, and made at his utmost speed (a sort of shamblingtrot) for the coppice or jungle, which he soon entered, and disappearedfrom our sight. at nightfall, a pack of ravenous wolves, headed by alarge white one, serenaded us, and came near enough to our camp-fire toseize a small terrier belonging to one of the party. the poor animal,unused to the dangers around, had the temerity to run out and bark atthe pack--he soon after gave one agonizing yelp, and we never saw himagain. as a reprisal, three of the party fired, and brought one of thewolves to the ground; he was of great size, and, i should say, couldhave carried away a sheep, or a good sized hog (of which they are veryfond), with ease. we could not, however, skin him--he was so infestedwith fleas. in the settlements they often seize and carry off children,but they do not molest adults.as we proceeded, we kept a vigilant look-out for indians, a number ofwhom, we had heard at fort andrews, had been driven in the direction wewere travelling. we fortunately escaped molestation, but saw in severalplaces human bones, probably the relics of a former combat between theunited states troops, or travellers like ourselves, and indians ornegroes. one skull i picked up had been split with a tomahawk, besideshaving a bullet-hole in it about the region of the left ear. oursituation was one of great peril, but i had made up my mind to proceedat all hazards, despite the opposition shown by two or three of thesettlers composing my escort, who, on more than one occasion, pointedout indian camp-grounds of only a few days' age. at one of these wefound a quantity of indian flour or arrowroot, part of a bridle, and theoffal of a calf; but we left the former, imagining it might be poisoned,the latter was of no use, our only dog having been devoured by thewolves. passing through a dense hammock, of a quarter of a mile inwidth, through which the pioneers of the american army had recently cuta rough road, i dismounted, to take a view of these sombre shades oneither hand. the solemn stillness around seemed to me like the shadow ofdeath--especially so, from the peril we were in through the deadly feudexisting at the time between the indians and white men. i penetrated forfull a quarter of a mile into this fastness in a lateral direction, and,in doing so, suddenly startled two immense white birds of the adjutantspecies, which were standing in a swamp surrounded by majestic cedartrees. i could easily have brought one down with my rifle, but i thoughtit wanton cruelty to do so. they were, i should think, quite six feethigh, and beautifully white, with a yellow tinge. the head of one,which, i suppose, was the male bird, was surmounted by a golden crest.they sailed quietly away over my head, not appearing much alarmed by theintrusion.in these primeval shades, where, perhaps, the foot of man never beforetrod (for i looked in vain for such traces), are many beasts, birds, andreptiles, which live in perfect security; for, although the indiandwells here, and subsists by hunting, yet the territory is so vast, andthe red men are so few in proportion, that there can be little doubtthat many places are untraversed.emerging on the open sand-plain somewhat unexpectedly, i caused my partyno little alarm; they instinctively grasped their rifles, imagining theapproach of a party of hostile indians.the constant dread of molestation causes the traveller here to be everon the _qui-vive_, the precaution being highly necessary, to preventsurprise. the least movement in a coppice excites apprehension, andfills the soul of both the resolute and the timorous with anticipationsof danger. nor are these fears groundless, for the treacherous indiancrawls stealthily to the attack, and, without a moment's warning, two orthree of a party may fall to the earth, pierced by rifle-balls, orrearing horses may throw the riders, and leave them at the mercy ofthese ruthless assassins.arriving at length at the bay in safety, i was accommodated in theofficers' quarters of a temporary fort or stockade, erected there. thesteamer had left, so that i was compelled to remain here longer than ihad intended, awaiting the arrival of the next boat. to beguile thetime, i went for miles into the forests, looking for game, often comingback disappointed and weary; at others rewarded by, perhaps, a racoon,or, what i valued more, a fawn or wild turkey. there was, however,plenty of sport on the river, and thousands of wild ducks, gannet, andpelicans, inhabited the little islands in the vicinity, and reared theiryoung there; some of these islands being covered with their eggs. largenumbers of alligators infested the streams adjacent, and theirbellowings, in concert with bull-frogs and other reptiles, oftenbanished sleep for nights together, although i was pretty wellaccustomed to such annoyances. snakes were often to be met with,although harmless if unmolested; amongst these, the moccason, hoop, andgarter snakes, of which i procured several specimens, were the mostcommon to be met with. rattle-snakes exist in rocky districts, but i sawnone of them here.the steamer not arriving as i anticipated, after remaining for aconsiderable time, and getting tired of so solitary a life, i determinedto retrace my steps to tallahassee.while remaining at this post, a party of mounted volunteers arrived fromgeorgia. these men were mostly sons of farmers, who had suffered fromthe unceasing attacks of the indians on their farms, in many instancesaccompanied by the butchery of some members of their families. it wasarranged that a company of u.s. infantry, stationed at the fort, shouldact in concert with these men, and scour the country for twenty milesround, to search for indians, traces of whom had been seen, and who, itwas very certain, were encamped not many miles off. as i felt desirousof observing the operations of these little campaigns against so wily afoe, i intimated to a major, my intention of accompanying theexpedition. he was pleased with the proposal, and furnished me with asplendid rifle and other equipments, from the stores of the depot. aftera short delay, owing to the non-arrival of some waggons that wereintended to accompany the expedition, the whole force mustered in frontof the stockade enclosure, and being furnished with ten days' provisionsfor man and horse, started under command of the major aforesaid, acrossthe sand-plains, in order to reach a dense cedar and cypress swamp, tenmiles distant, where it was suspected the enemy was concealed. after atedious march through a wild country, so overgrown with saw palmetto andunderbrush, that our horses had great difficulty to get through it, wearrived at the skirts of the swamp; here a consultation took placebetween the officers present, and it was arranged that an indian guidewhom we had with us, should go in and hold a parley with the indians, toinduce them if possible, to surrender. the guide went into the hammock,which extended along the edge of the swamp as far as the eye couldreach, right and left. i should have mentioned, that this man, with theusual indian acuteness, had discovered indubitable signs that the enemywas in the vicinity, long before we reached the spot. after an absenceof about an hour, during which time we refreshed ourselves, and madepreparations for an expected struggle, our guide returned, bringing withhim a bow and quiver of arrows, as proofs of his interview with thesecreted indians. the account he gave, which was interpreted by ahalf-bred indian who accompanied the expedition for the purpose, was,that after penetrating some distance into the fastness, he came to theencampment of the enemy, and was instantly surrounded by warriors, whoseized him, but after parleying for a considerable time, let him go,presenting him with a bow and arrows, as a symbol of their unflinchingresolve to continue the war.on hearing this, it was at once determined by the officer in commandthat the whole force (except a guard for the horses and waggons) shouldgo in and surprise them. the guide shook his head at this, and, pointingtowards the swamp, said, "that is the way. i have shown it to you;follow it if you will; i do not go." it was, however, of no use todally, and orders were given for all hands to follow into the swamp. formy own part, i wished to stay behind, but was told that such a coursewas attended with danger, as the indians would most likely emerge fromanother part of the hammock, and endeavour to seize the horses, andransack the waggons. this decided my adopting the least of the twoevils, although i fully expected we should have a battle. afterpenetrating for i should think upwards of two miles, sometimes up to ourknees in miry clay, and often stopped by impassable barriers of wildvines and other prehensile plants, which annoyed us greatly, and made meregret a thousand times that i had courted such dangers andinconveniences, the sound of two rifle-shots threw the whole party intoindescribable commotion. supposing we were attacked, all hands flew asquick as thought to the trees around, where each one, peeping frombehind the trunks which were sought as a shelter against the rifle-ballsof the expected foe, waited for a few moments in great suspense, when,suddenly, a loud cheer from the party in advance, followed by severalrifle-shots, told us they had come upon the encampment. as the firingceased, i knew the indians had fled; this seemed also the opinion of thevolunteers near me, who simultaneously left their hiding-place, andpushed forward to the scene. on arriving at the spot, i found thesoldiers around a large indian fire, over which was suspended a boilingcauldron, filled with venison, the indians having been, no doubt,preparing a meal when disturbed by us; by the side, and not far from thefire, was a large trough, made out of a fallen tree, in which was aquantity of arrowroot in course of preparation. this plant growsplentifully in this latitude, and is the principal fare of the indians,their squaws superintending the management of it. the remains of a finebuck lay near, and also some moccasons, leggings, and other indian gear.the enemy we had so unceremoniously disturbed had, as usual, takenflight; but we found traces of blood, and the advanced party stated thatthey had fired on two warriors, who, with a woman and two children, wereon the spot when they came up.as it was deemed quite useless to pursue them, from their being, nodoubt, well acquainted with the intricacies of the fastness, and,therefore, sure to evade us, we regaled ourselves on the venison, ofwhich some refused to partake, lest it should be poisoned. it wasdecided that the force should emerge from the swamp to the open plainabout a mile above the spot where we had left the waggons, by acircuitous route; this was accordingly done, but our progress was sodifficult, that the indians had ample opportunity to fly before us, andwe saw no further traces of them.on reaching the waggons, we found, to our great satisfaction, that allwas safe, and as night was approaching, it was decided to encamp there,a spring of turbid water being in the vicinity a cordon of sentinels wasaccordingly placed around our resting-place, and some tents were pitchedfor a portion of the party; the remainder, wrapped in blankets, sleepingon the sand. after the whiskey had passed round, the jocular littlemajor in command proposed a song, and as one of the infantry soldierswas an adept at the art, he was invited to our marquee. although in thevery midst of danger, for we knew not how formidable in number theindians were, we passed a merry evening.soon after this affair, the party returned to the bay, and in a day ortwo i started on my return to tallahassee. about twenty miles fromdeadman's bay, we overtook a fugitive negro, and as we came upon himunexpectedly, when turning the edge of a hammock, he had not time toretreat, being within rifle-range, or he would doubtless have done so.he threw up his arms, and gave a piercing shriek (an unvariable customof indians when in danger), expecting to be instantly shot. he had,however, nothing to fear, having fallen in with friends and not foes. asi saw he was without a rifle, i dashed forward and accosted him first.he was soon assured, by my manner of addressing him, and beggedearnestly that we would not detain or hurt him. this i at once promised,if he would inform us whether indians were near. he said no, they hadleft that country two suns (days) ago, taking an easterly direction, andwe might proceed to fort andrews in safety.after putting several other questions to him, i inquired if the indianswould cross our path to tallahassee from that post. he said no, theywere far off in another direction, having gone to east florida, eightymiles distant. the fellow was in poor case, and begged for food, sayinghe was starving. i, therefore, desired the men to supply him with somedried venison and bread, which he ate with avidity. he refused to tellme his master's name, but said there were hundreds of negroes fightingwith the indians, six from the same plantation as himself. my companionswere at first intent upon securing him, but being averse to thatcourse, i dared them to do it; when, seeing i was fully determined onthis point, they did not insist. pointing to the hammock, after givinghim a dram of brandy, i bid him be off, when he darted like a deer intothe thicket, and disappeared from our view, with a loud shout ofexultation.about ten miles further on, as we passed the edge of a dense hammock, weheard the bay of an indian dog, and fearing the proximity of a party ofmarauders, we were instantly on the alert. the dog did not, however,come out of the wood, and we rode from the dangerous vicinity with alldispatch. arrived again at fort andrews, without any further adventureworth recording, we found a party of volunteers about to proceed to fortpleasant, in the direction we were going. after recruiting my now almostexhausted strength by a refreshing sleep, i went down to theirencampment, by the river's edge. they had the day before encountered astrong party of indians, whom they repulsed with loss. some of the partyshowed me several bloody scalps of warriors they had killed. i could nothelp remarking the beauty of the hair, which was raven-black, and shonewith a beautiful gloss. they had several captured indian women withthem, and half-a-dozen children; the former were absorbed in grief, andone in particular, whose young husband had been shot in the fray, andwhose scalp was one of those i have just mentioned, was quiteoverwhelmed. the children, little conscious of the misery of theirparents, swam about and dived in the river like amphitrites; they eachcarried a small bow and quiver of arrows. there is no doubt the indiansthese volunteers had fallen in with and routed, were the identical partyreferred to by the negro we had met some forty-eight hours before.i had made up my mind to stay at fort andrews for a time, partly tofulfil an engagement with a friend whom i had arranged to meet here, andto whom i shall shortly have to refer more at length, and partly torecruit my strength, a tertian ague having seized me, which muchdebilitated my frame, and made travelling very irksome. my accommodationwas indifferent, but medical assistance, which i needed most, was notwanting, and i shall never forget the courtesy of the officers.i employed my time chiefly in rambling the woods, when health wouldpermit, and had a boat lent to me, with which, in company, i severaltimes penetrated the tortuous river, esteenahatchie, to the bay, somemiles distant. at night the boats were all sunk, or they would have beenstolen or destroyed by the indians, who hovered round and committedpetty depredations at every opportunity. below the fort, was a ruinousmill, in a gloomy dell, through which the river wended its silentcourse. this had once been tenanted, but the inhabitants were murderedsome years before by the indians, who afterwards (as is their almostunvarying custom), added to the atrocity by setting fire to thebuilding.sitting one day, after a lengthened ramble, in solitary meditation on myposition and the surrounding scenery, i saw a fine indian, who appearedgreatly fatigued, emerge from the adjoining hammock, and walk to theedge of the stream, and there, after glancing round him with eager eyeand air, he laid down his rifle, and stepping on to a tree whichdebouched into the stream (lying as it had been struck down by atornado), he crouched down at the end of it, and commenced lavinghimself with the water. his appearance was romantic, and there is nodoubt, from his dress, he was a warrior of some note, probably followinghis wife, one of the squaws captured by the volunteers i have beforementioned, and who were still at fort andrews, awaiting orders fromgeneral taylor. i could have shot him to a certainty, had i been armed,which was not the case. had it been so, however, i was predeterminednever, unless in self-defence, to imbrue my hands in indian or negroblood while in the territory, neither was i disposed to betray him, fori deeply sympathized with the misfortunes of his race, and well knewthat an inexcusable spirit of aggrandizement on the part of the federalgovernment had in the first place roused the indignation of both negroesand red men, and provoked hostilities. after performing his ablution,the indian stalked like a deer into the recesses of the forest, i havingin the mean time, as a matter of policy, moved out of danger, for he wasno doubt animated with feelings of dire revenge, and in a very differentmood from that in which i have described myself to have been at thetime.during my visit to deadman's bay, i had become acquainted with a scotchgentleman, who was employed on the medical staff of the u.s. army, ibelieve, as a supernumerary, or candidate for a commission as a surgeon.he was a most agreeable companion, of good natural parts, fluent inconversation, intelligent in remark, free from egotism, and welleducated, i believe, at cambridge, in england. we soon became attachedto each other. he accompanied me in my rambles, and we were almostinseparable companions during my stay. he was one of those beings, infine, who seem to be sent at times to cheer the darkened highway ofexistence under gloomy circumstances; and i fondly hoped to enjoy withhim a lengthened period of virtuous intimacy, and close, unalloyedfriendship, on more propitious soil.but the decrees of providence are inscrutable, and "his ways," indeed,"past finding out." this was certainly strikingly exemplified by thecatastrophe i am about to relate, which deprived me for ever of myfriend.when at the bay, he expressed a wish to visit st. marks, tallahassee,and apalachicola, and stated his intention, as soon as his engagementspermitted, to proceed thither by steamer, if opportunity offered--orfailing this, to go overland, availing himself of some escort whichmight be proceeding in that direction. as i felt desirous to have hiscompany, on my route to south carolina, i arranged to halt at fortandrews, as before stated, that he should join me there in a week, andthen proceed in company with me to fort pleasant, forty miles distant,and thence to tallahassee.the time having now come at which i was expecting his arrival, i was onemorning anxiously looking out through the long vista of pine trees andbarrens, when i descried in the distance two horsemen approaching attheir greatest speed; i at first imagined them to be, as they indeedproved, an advanced party of my friend's escort--but, on their comingup, i could see, from the agitation they were in, and the foaming stateof their horses, which were quite white and in a dreadfully exhaustedstate, that something alarming had happened.the tale was soon told:--it appeared, that about midway between the twosettlements, or stations, a party of indians in ambush had fired uponthe party, and my friend had been treacherously murdered. i was muchaffected by this intelligence, and, after some consultation with agentleman there, determined to get up a pretty strong party, and proceedto the scene of the murder, to collect the remains of my poor friend,whose bones would otherwise be left, as i had seen others in thoseregions, to bleach on the sand hills. we soon started, the partyconsisting of fourteen men, well armed with rifles, bowie knives, andpistols, accompanied by a waggon, drawn by four stout mules and drivenby a negro, to convey back the remains. the expedition was attended withno little danger, from the proximity of a newly-discovered party ofindians, who were committing dreadful ravages in the district--butwhether in large or small force, was uncertain; they were, probably, theparty i have before adverted to, lingering about the vicinity.after a melancholy journey, during which we were so absorbed by ourfeelings, that little was said; we reached the fatal spot, it beingpointed but by one of the party who formed my friend's escort.' it wason the edge of a dense hammock, by the skirts of which lay some enormoustrees, which had been levelled by a recent tornado. from behind thisbarricade the indians had unexpectedly fired on the party--the attackwas so sudden, that they appeared to have been quite taken by surprise.this was the more extraordinary, as the whole neighbourhood was of adescription likely to be chosen by the red men for an ambuscade. theparty attacked must have been in great trepidation, for, from what icould glean, the survivors put spurs to their horses' flanks, andgalloped off to fort andrews, leaving my poor friend entirely at themercy of the enemy. the survivor, who accompanied us, stated, that theywere riding in indian file, as is customary there; that poor h---- wasin front of him; and that, directly the indians gave their fire, he sawhim fall backwards from his horse, at the same time raising his lefthand to his head. he could tell no more, the horse he was on havingwheeled round suddenly, and been urged on in retreat by its rider, whowas in the greatest imaginable terror. had the party halted, andreturned the fire, for they were well armed, in all probability some ofthe marauders would have been laid low, or, if the indians were but few,they might at least have rescued my poor friend.we found footmarks of indians, which we traced; by these it appearedthat they were in small force, and that when h---- fell from his horsehe recovered his feet, and ran from the enemy, in the direction of theplain, for about two hundred yards--here it was evident he had beenovertaken, and his skull cloven with a tomahawk from behind. we soondiscovered his remains in the sand, denuded of every particle of fleshand muscle by the vultures and the ravenous wolves. we collected thebones with reverential care, and placed them in the waggon, for transitto fort andrews.on the bones of the little finger of the left hand was an emerald ring,which i had often seen the murdered man wear, and which, being coveredwith blood and sand at the time of the catastrophe, no doubt escaped theattention of the villians who perpetrated the atrocious act. the leftjaw was fractured by a rifle-bullet, which knocked him off his horsebackwards, as described by one of the survivors.in the pines opposite the place of ambush, we found several ballsimbedded, and one had lodged in the pummel of the saddle of the man whowas present, and who formed one of our party. it appeared probable thatthere were not more than four or five indians engaged in the attack; aforce which might easily have been repelled and annihilated withordinary courage, but formidable enough to men wanting the presence ofmind which is necessary under such circumstances.after a fatiguing journey, for which i was at the time almost totallyunfitted by ill-health, our party reached fort andrews, with the mangledremains of the victim. a short time afterwards these were committed tothe sand, a military salute being fired over the grave by some soldiersat the garrison. on an elevated slab of wood, to the north of fortandrews, may be seen a zinc plate, erected by me to the memory of myfriend, with his name, the date of his death, and an epitome of thecircumstances attending it. this memento of regard has, in allprobability, escaped the cupidity of the indians, for i took theprecaution to have it placed as much out of sight as possible, and theplace of burial was off the beaten track.thus perished miserably, one whose generous openness and manly virtuesrendered him dear to all who had the privilege of his acquaintance. hewas a native of somewhere near arbroath in scotland, but his accent didnot betray his nativity.in traversing the sandy deserts of west florida, i had frequentopportunities of tracing the devastating effects of those awfulvisitations in tropical climates--hurricanes, or tornadoes; and,notwithstanding i had the good fortune to escape the danger of beingexposed to one, i more than once prepared for the worst. one of thesewas accompanied with phenomena so unusual and striking to a native ofeurope, that i must not omit some notice of it, if for no other purposethan to convey to the mind of the reader one of the many unpleasant butwonderful accompaniments of a residence in these latitudes, sopoetically, and indeed so truthfully, apostrophized as "the sunnysouth."it was while on a journey (accompanied by two yeomen from east florida,who were proceeding to join an expedition against the indians to defendtheir hearths, and by the friend whose melancholy loss i have advertedto) from deadman's bay towards tallahassee, that the occurrence i amabout to mention took place it was in the height of summer, and forseveral days fahrenheit's barometer had ranged from 84 to 90 degrees,the temperature being occasionally even higher, by some degrees, thanthis. we started soon after eight in the morning, and had ridden all dayunder a scorching sun, from the effects of which we were butill-defended by our palm-leaf hats, for our heads were achingintensely--my own being, in common parlance, "ready to split," not aninapt simile, by the way, as i often experienced in the south. towardsevening, the sultriness increased to a great degree, and respirationbecame painful, from the closeness of the atmosphere. a suspicious lullsoon after succeeded, and we momentarily expected the storm to overtakeus. it was not, however, one that was to be relieved by an ordinarydischarge of thunder, lightning, and rain--deeper causes being evidentlyat work. the denseness of the air was accompanied by a semi-darkness,similar to that which prevails during an eclipse of the sun, whichluminary, on the occasion i refer to, after all day emitting a luridglare, was so shrouded in vapour as to be scarcely discernible, even inoutline--while a subterranean noise added to the terrors of oursituation, which strongly called to mind the accounts we read ofearthquakes and similar phenomena.we moved slowly on, as people naturally would who were about to beoverwhelmed in a calamity that threatened their annihilation, while anindefinable sensation of sleepiness and inertia seized the whole of theparty. vultures and other birds of prey screamed dismally, as theyhovered round our heads in the greatest excitement, arising either fromterror or the anticipation of a rich repast, we could not tell which.these voracious creatures, with great audacity, often descended towithin a few feet of the heads of our horses, which seemedterror-stricken at their near approach. i took aim at one of the largestof them with my rifle, and it fell a little to my left, with an impetusi can only compare to the fall of a human being. directly it touched theground, it vomited carrion and died. it was many feet in breadth fromtip to tip of wing, but we were too perturbed to stop and measure it.when i discharged the rifle, the report was unusually faint, owing tothe state of the air; so much so, that my companions, who were not fiftyyards behind, scarcely heard it. the wild animals in the jungle whichskirted the road, and which, in general, skulk in silence and secresy intheir haunts, rent the air with their howlings. the very order of natureseemed about to be reversed, while the long streamers of grey mossswayed backwards and forwards mournfully from the trees, adding to thesolemnity of the scene. as the party slowly wended its way through thewilderness, each individual looked round with suspicion, exchangingfurtive glances, or now and then uttering some exclamation ofalarm--their manner and bearing indicating minds ill at ease.this dismal state of things lasted nearly an hour, after which timenature seemed to recover herself by a sudden throe, for a brisk breeze,which was highly refreshing to our senses, and which was attended by theloud hollow subterranean sound i have before referred to, unexpectedlysprang up, and swept off, as if by magic, the inertia of nature. whatmade the phenomenon more extraordinary, was the total absence of thunderor lightning. my companions shouted for joy when the hollow moan of theembryo tempest was heard to move off to the eastward (for, as theyinformed me, it told of deliverance from peril); i felt a sensation ofdelight i cannot describe, and heartily responded to the noisydemonstration of satisfaction raised by my companions.our horses, apparently participating in our delight, pricked up theirears, and snorted, fairly prancing with pleasure, tired and jaded asthey were after thirty miles' travel through sand, into which they sankat every step fetlock deep, often groaning pitifully.i noticed that, during the impending storm, they hung down their headsin a listless manner, and sighed heavily, a circumstance that to ourminds presaged calamity, and which, i may add, was altogether unlike theusual indication of fatigue in animals which have travelled a greatdistance. had the tornado burst upon us, instead of passing off as itdid, it is very doubtful whether the hand that writes this would nothave been mingled with its native dust, in the arid sands of florida;for, as we rode on, we saw gigantic pine, cedar, and hiccory trees,torn up by the roots, and scattered over the surrounding country, byby-gone hurricanes, many of them hundreds of yards from the spot thatnurtured their roots--while the gnarled branches lying across our track,scorched black-with the lightning, or from long exposure to a burningsun, impeded our advance, and made the journey anything but pleasant.the occurrence i have mentioned formed a topic of conversation for somemiles as we journeyed to our destination; and one of my companionsstated, that a few months before, when in the neighbourhood ofpensacola, a hurricane came on unexpectedly, and caused greatdevastation, unroofing the houses, tearing up trees, and filling the airwith branches and fragments of property. he happily escaped, althoughhis little estate, situated at mardyke enclosure, some short distancefrom the town, was greatly injured, and some six or eight people werecrushed to death by the falling trees and ruins of houses.chapter vi."before us visions comeof slave-ships on virginia's coast,of mothers in their childless home,like rachel, sorrowing o'er the lost;the slave-gang scourged upon its way.the bloodhound and his human prey."--whittier.florida produces oranges, peaches, plums, a species of cocoa-nut, andmusk and water-melons in abundance. the more open portions of thecountry are dotted over with clumps of gnarled pines, of a very resinousnature, white and red oak, hiccory, cedar, and cypress, and is ingeneral scantily clad with thin grass, fit only for deer to browse upon.the dreary sameness of the interior of this desolate country isdistressing to the traveller; and the journey from one settlement toanother, through pine-forests, seems almost interminable.one morning, a short time prior to my intended departure fortallahassee, i was roused before daybreak by a rifle-shot, which wasinstantly followed by the cry of "guard, turn out!" and much hubbub. asthis was no unusual occurrence, from the constant apprehension we werein of an attack by the indians on the stockade, and as it had severaltimes occurred before during my stay, i resolved to lie and listenawhile before i rose. the earnest conversation and the noise of horsessoon after satisfied me it was only a friendly arrival. i, however, feltanxious to obtain intelligence as to the success of a treaty thenpending between the united states government and the indians; thefavourable termination of which would not only render my return totallahassee more safe, but put a stop, perhaps for ever, to thoseconstant scenes of blood and depredation that were by this time becomequite sickening to me. this feeling was much enhanced at the time by theexpress between fort andrews and deadman's bay, being shot by a party ofthe common enemy. the body of this poor fellow was never found, buttraces of blood were to be seen near the spot where he had beenattacked; and the saddle and bridle of his horse were found cut into athousand pieces; the probability being that he was wounded and takenprisoner, doubtless to be tortured to death, a practice common with allindian tribes in time of war.on my proceeding to a house used as officers' quarters, outside thestockade, i found the stir had been caused by the arrival of twocompanies of light-horse soldiers from st. marks, escorting severalcouples of bloodhounds, to aid the army, operating in that part offlorida, to exterminate the indians. these dogs were very ferocious,and, on approaching the leashmen, who had them in charge, they opened infull yell, and attempted to break loose. the dogs had just arrived fromcuba with their keepers, their importation having been caused by thesupposition, that, like the maroons in jamaica, who, for nearly thirtyyears, defied the colonists there, the indians would be terrified intosubmission. this, however, turned out to be erroneous; for, on theirfirst trial, the indians killed several, and the scheme was veryproperly abandoned a short time after.such barbarous means were very unjustifiable, although many (to use thelanguage of the earl of chatham, when deprecating a similar course inthe english house of lords) considered that every means that god andnature had placed in their hands, were allowable in the endeavour tobring to a close a war that had cost the federal government an immenseamount of blood and treasure. i am of opinion, however, from what iafterwards heard, that the step was not an altogether popular one in theeastern and northern states, although it certainly was so in thesouthern; it being argued in the public prints there, that as dogs hadbeen used in hunting down fugitive negroes from time immemorial, themere fact of bloodhounds being used instead of mastiffs was a peccadillounworthy of name.the tobacco plant, though growing in many parts of floridaspontaneously, like the broad-leafed dock in england, is oftencultivated in garden-ground for domestic use, some of the finer kindsbeing as aromatic as those of cuba. the soil in such places is rich;indeed, the plant will not thrive in many parts where this is not thecase. the method of propagation, generally followed by the largegrowers, is that recommended by loudon, in his incomparable_encyclopedia of agriculture,_ and is as follows:--the soil selected isin general loamy and deep; this is well broken up before planting, andfrequently stirred to free it from the rich growth of weeds that, inflorida in particular, choke the growth of all plants if neglected. theseeds being small, they are lightly covered with earth, and then thesurface is pressed down with a flat instrument used for the purpose. intwo months after, the seedlings are ready to transplant, and are placedin drills, three feet apart every way. these are frequently watered, ifthere happens to be but little rain, which, in that arid climate, isoften the case for weeks together, and the plants regularly lookedover, to destroy a species of worm winch, if not removed, plays greathavoc with the young buds. when four inches high, the plants are mouldedup like potatoes in england; when they have six or seven leaves, and arejust putting out a stalk, the top is nipped off, to make the leavesstronger and more robust. after this, the buds, which show themselves atthe joints of the leaves, are plucked, and then the plants are dailyexamined, to destroy a caterpillar, of a singular form and grey incolour, which makes its appearance at this stage, and is verydestructive to narcotic plants. when fit for cutting, which is known bythe brittleness of the leaves, the plants are cut close to the ground,and allowed to lie some time. they are then put in farm-houses, in thechimney-corner, to dry; or, if the crop is extensive, the plants arehung upon lines in a drying-house, so managed that they will not toucheach other. in this state, they are left to sweat and dry. when thistakes place, the leaves are stripped off and tied in bundles; these areput in heaps, and covered with a sort of matting, made from thecotton-fibre or seaweed, to engender a certain heat to ripen the aroma,care being taken lest a fermentation should occur, which injures thevalue of the article; to avoid which the bundles are exposed and spreadabout now and then in the open air. this operation is calledventilating by the planters, and is continued until there is no apparentheat in the heaps. the plant is quite ornamental, and its blossoms forma pleasing feature in a garden of exotic productions.after a brief stay at fort andrews, subsequent to the last sad officesfor my deceased friend, i left that spot on horseback for tallahassee,in company with four settlers. we soon reached the more populateddistricts, without being molested by the indians. here they hadcommitted sad devastations; we saw many farms without occupants, theholders having been either murdered by midnight assassins, or havingfled in alarm. adjoining these habitations, we found line peachorchards, teeming with fruit of the richest description, which lay inbushels on the ground, and with which we regaled ourselves. enclosedmaize fields overgrown with brambles, and cotton fields with the ginsand apparatus for packing the produce in bales for the market, presentedto the eye the very picture of desolation.owing to cross roads we were at one time completely at fault, and therebeing no house in sight, i volunteered to ride off to the right andendeavour to obtain the information we were in need of. after ridingabout half-a-mile, i heard voices through a road-side coppice, which itook to be those of field-hands at work; going farther on i dismounted,and climbing the zigzag rail fence approached a negro at work in thefield. i inquired if he could put me on the road to tallahassee; heappeared much frightened at the intrusion, but stated he did not know,but his mas'r did, at the same time pointing to the plantation-house,situate the greater part of a mile distant; being averse to going there,for fear of impudent interrogation, i offered him money to go with me tothe point where i had left my companions, and show us the way to thenext house; he did not even know what it was i offered him, and inapparent amazement inquired what that was for; i explained, buy tobacco,buy whiskey; he appeared totally ignorant of its use, and i have nodoubt he had never had money in his possession, or learned its use.still, he refused to leave the field, a wise precaution, as i afterwardsfound, both for himself and me. the negro being resolute, there was nowno alternative but to go to the house, on arriving at which, i met withsuch a reception as i had feared and anticipated. three fierce dogs ofthe mastiff breed, regularly trained to hunting fugitive negroes, rushedout upon me. i had only a small riding whip with me, having left myfire-arms with a friend at fort andrews, and much dreaded laceration.their noise soon brought out a ferocious, lank-visaged-looking man,about forty years of age, who immediately called off the dogs; butbefore i had time to make the inquiry that brought me there, he began inabout the following strain,"what dye yer waunt up yar, stranger? arter no good, i guess; you'dbetter put it 'bout straight. i see'd yer torking to the handsyonder--none o' yer 'mancipator doctrines yar."the fellow's address "struck me all of a heap," as he would himself havesaid, had he been in my situation; he spoke so fast, that i could notedge in a word; at last i stated the cause of my intrusion, but he wouldnot believe a word, ordered me to quit the plantation or he would setthe dogs on me, and was getting into such an ungovernable rage, that ithought it would be wise to follow his advice. so i slowly retreated tothe yard entrance by which i had come in. returning to my companions atthe cross-roads, i found that, in my absence, a passer-by had given themthe wished-for information, and we pushed on to a house of call, a fewmiles distant.as the ride was a long one, we halted at this house for refreshment,and, after baiting our horses, regaled ourselves upon some choice hamand eggs. at the table, three little negroes, one girl and two boys,under fourteen years of age, served as waiters. their clothing wassupplied by nature, being solely the primitive habiliments worn in edenbefore the fall. this is quite customary in the south, where the rulesof decency are commonly set at defiance, as if the curse of adam'stransgression applied not in this respect to the african race. thelittle creatures did not seem to be in the least aware of their degradedstate; they were as agile as fawns, and their tact in administering tothe wants of the company was quite remarkable.just as we were about to proceed on our journey, a party of somehalf-a-dozen planters or overseers of neighbouring estates, mounted onfine mules, who had been searching for fugitive field-hands, rode up. icould see they were greatly excited, and one of them had a negro lassoedby the neck, one end of the rope being fastened to his high spanishsaddle. on coming up to the entrance gate, the one most in advancedismounted to open it; the mule, eager, perhaps, to get to a crib, or,what is more likely, to evade a brutal kick or blow, trotted through;this did not please its owner, who bellowed loudly to it to stop. themule, however, still kept on, when the ruffian, in demoniac anger, drewfrom his belt a long bowie knife, and darting after the animal, hurledit at him with all his force. the blade of the weapon, which was six orseven inches long, entered and stuck fast in the abdomen of the agonizedcreature, which, for about twenty yards, ran on furiously, with themurderous knife in its vitals. it then fell-with a deep groan, while thefiend who had perpetrated this wanton act of barbarity and hiscompanions watched its fall, and loudly exulted in it. i noticed thatthere was a deep scowl of hatred on the countenance of the negroprisoner as this drama was being enacted, and when the knife struck thepoor mule he cried out, "oh, mas'r, mas'r!" societies for thesuppression of cruelty to animals, are, as might be supposed, unknown insuch remote situations, nor do they exist in any of the slave states andterritories of america; so that redress in such a case was out of thequestion. i therefore consoled myself that the outrage had brought itsown punishment in the loss of the mule, which was at least worth fromeighty to one hundred dollars.passing onwards, we reached tallahassee by rather a circuitous route,_via_ mount pleasant. although in an indifferent state of health, fromexposure to the poisonous miasma of the country, i, on the whole, feltpleased with my journey, now that its dangers were over, and grateful tothe great dispenser of all good, who had safely conducted me throughthem. at tallahassee i saw in the streets, in charge of aruffianly-looking fellow, two negroes, with heavy iron collars roundtheir necks. these were captured run-aways; the collars, which musthave weighed seven or ten pounds, had spikes projecting on either side.one of the poor creatures had hold of the spikes as he walked along toease the load that pressed painfully on his shoulders.general murat resided at the time in this neighbourhood; he is thebrother of jehoiachin, ex-king of naples, and owns a large plantation,and, i was told, upwards of two hundred negroes, who were described asbeing humanely treated by him. this, however, is a very indefinite term,where all slave-owners profess to do the same, though the poor wretchesover whom by law they impiously assume god's heritage, in ninety casesout of every hundred, are scantily clothed, worse fed than horses ormules, and worked to the utmost extent of human endurance, the humanitybeing, in most cases, left to the tender mercies of a brutal overseer,who exacts all he can. if the poor, tattered, squalid-looking beings isaw in tallahassee be a fair specimen of the "humane treatment" i havereferred to, heaven help them.general murat, some years ago, married an american lady, who delightedin being called the "princess," a little piece of vanity quite inkeeping with the aristocratical prejudices of american females in thesouth, who are devoted worshippers of lordly institutions and usages. idid not see the general myself, but was told he was often to be metlounging about the bars of the principal hotels (being quiteamericanized in this respect). he was described as a very garrulous oldgentleman, extremely fond of recounting his adventures, particularly hisescape when the allied troops entered paris, about the year ofbonaparte's subjugation.after remaining a few days in tallahassee, i took the conveyance tomacon in georgia, intending to pursue my route overland to charleston insouth carolina. in the diligence (a clumsy apology for a coach) fromtallahassee to macon, were several loquacious passengers. one of theseamused and disgusted us by turns; for, after giving an epitome of hiscareer, which was a chequered one, he related an incident that hadrecently occurred on a plantation he had been visiting, and, as itpresents a novel feature in the asserted rights of slave-holders--howprofane, i will not stop to inquire--i think it worth recording. after arecital of a drunken debauch, in which he had taken a part, described byhim as a frolic, and which had been kept up for several days, his host,he said, anxious to show the high sense he entertained of the honour ofthe visit by making almost any sacrifice (this was said with greatconceit), proposed to put a negro up with an apple on his head, inimitation of the ordeal imposed on william tell, the swiss patriot,declaring that he who divided the apple, or perforated it with arifle-ball, should own the slave. this proposal, the gentleman veryfacetiously observed, the party jumped at, expecting some good sport;but added, "the fellow spoilt it, for he refused to stand still,although we 'used up' a cowhide over him for his obstinacy." thefrivolous manner in which this intended outrage was related, filled meand my fellow-passengers with disgust. i thought it was not safe toremark on the proceeding, for i could see he was a very strenuousupholder of that disgraceful system of oppression, which stigmatizes anddegrades the americans as a people, and will continue to do so, until itis utterly abrogated, and their characters retrieved.this would-be patrician was a pedantic, swaggering bully, who, it wasevident, entertained high notions of his importance, and owned, perhaps,large possessions,--in a word, he was an american aristocrat, and thedescription i have given is a fair one of his class in the south.pointing to a hill, as we entered a little settlement on our way tomacon, he exclaimed, "see there, gentlemen, twenty years ago i toiled upthat hill without a cent in my wallet (purse), but now" he continued,with the air of a potentate, "my niggers are the sleekest in ourcountry. in those days," he went on, "glass inkstands stood on thedesks of the bank i now am chief proprietor of; we have nothing but goldones now." the fellow's bombast lowered him in the esteem of thepassengers, who seemed indisposed to listen to him, and the latter partof the journey he said little, being in fact regularly sent to coventryby us all. he afterwards amused himself much to our annoyance bywhistling airs and singing snatches of songs, which caused one of thepassengers, a lady, to leave the diligence at the next change of horses.he was quite an adept at whistling the air of "yankee doodle." this wantof deference to the sex, which i must say is an exception to the generalbehaviour of men there and in other parts of the union i visited, didnot fail to call forth animadversion; the remarks at one time being sopointed, that i began to feel uneasy lest the pugnacious spirit might bearoused in him, which leads so often in the south to serious encounters.our conveyance, which more resembled a waggon than, a stage-coach,having by this time stopped at a large hotel at macon, i alighted withmuch pleasure, for the roughness of the road, the disagreeable loquacityof the passenger i have described, and the recklessness of the driver,made the journey excessively unpleasant.the negro population in georgia is very numerous, and their constantattempts to escape to the everglades in florida, make unceasingvigilance on the part of their owners necessary for the safety of theirproperty. in many instances where suspicion exists, they are neverallowed on any pretence, to leave the estate or residence of the owner.at the greensborough railway terminus, i noticed two negroes on theirway to charleston. before being allowed to take their seat in an opencarriage in the rear of the train, the clerk at the station stepped upto them, and with an air of great effrontery demanded to see theirpasses; these were instantly shown with an alacrity that plainlyindicated fear; they were then shut in a box in the rear of the train,in which i could see no sitting accommodation. the way in which thesemen were treated presented nothing new, for i had invariably noticedthat coloured people in the south, whether bond or free, were spoken towith supercilious haughtiness, which i never once saw them openlyresent.on arriving at the next station a trader got into the carriage. he hadwith him two negro men and a boy; these were secured to each other byhand-cuffs and a slight negro chain.for the last forty miles of my journey, i had a very pleasant companionin a gentleman from the state of alabama. he was a most agreeable andintelligent young fellow, but invalided like myself through thepoisonous miasma of the south. i entered freely into conversation withhim on general matters, in the course of which i introduced slavery inseveral of its bearings. i soon discovered by his bias, that he wasdecidedly in favour of "things as they are."being anxious to obtain some information as to the observance of thenuptial tie amongst slaves, i touched upon that subject, when he told methe ceremony was mostly a burlesque, and that unions were in general buttemporary, although he had known some very devoted couples. but heproceeded to state that there was much room for reform in this respect."i will relate to you an instance," said he, "of the manner in whichthis, as we white people consider it, solemn compact, is entered intoamongst field-hands. when a couple wish to live together as man andwife, the male nigger mentions it to the overseer, and if there are noimpediments, they have a cabin assigned to them." he described a sceneof this kind, which i will endeavour to give verbatim. he said itoccurred on his father's estate, some years before, and that he wasstanding by at the time, "although," he continued, "'tis done the samenow in most instances." a negro approached where the overseer wasstanding, apparently, by his sidling manner, about to ask some favour,when the following colloquy ensued._overseer_.--well, you black rascal, what do you stand grinning therefor?_negro_.--please, mas'r, want lucy for wife._overseer_.--wife, you scoundrel, what do you want a wife for; be offwith you, and mind your horses. (he was employed as a teamster on theestate.)_negro_.--oh, mas'r, i loves lucy._overseer_.--and she loves you, i suppose. a fine taste she must have,indeed. where are you going to live?_negro_--got room in no. 2 cabin, if mas'r please let 'um._overseer_.--well, now listen; go along, and take her, but, you lazydog, if you get into any scrapes, and don't work like live coals, i'llsend her to the other estate (which was situated forty miles distant),and flay you alive into the bargain.the poor fellow, after thanking the overseer (not for his politeness,certainly), darted off to communicate the joyful intelligence to hisaffianced, making the welkin ring with his shouts. the gentleman whodescribed this scene said that it was always the custom on his father'sestate to give a gallon or two of whiskey for the attendantmerry-making.after numerous stoppages, the train at length reached charleston. thejourney from greensborough had been a tedious one; besides the annoyanceof slow travelling, through the inefficient state of the line, which wasso defective that the carriages frequently left the rails, the noisomeeffluvia arising from the swamps we had to pass through, which harbourinnumerable alligators and other reptiles, had the most debilitatingeffect on the frame, which was increased by the extreme sultriness ofthe weather after leaving my ticket at the terminus, i disposed of mybaggage by hiring a negro to carry it to my boarding-house, and slowlywended my way into the city. a spacious public square at the end ofking-street, through which i had to pass to my _table d'hote_, presentedan animated view, the citizens being assembled to celebrate theanniversary of the independence conferred by washington and hiscompatriots by the solemn declaration of the 4th july, 1776. longtables, under gay awnings, to shield the company from the burning raysof the sun, which at the time were intense, groaned with every luxurythe climate afforded; but the banquet was not furnished by this alone,for cuba and some of the neighbouring islands, it was stated, had beenransacked for delicacies. crowds of elegantly-dressed ladies (in generalof very sallow look and languid air) and spirit-like children, withswarthy-looking men, many of whose visages bore evident traces ofexposure to the ill effects of the climate and of dissipation, crowdedthe festive board. the negro attendants in dozens moved about withautomatic order, as is characteristic of all the race on such occasions,for the negro is a "model waiter" at a banquet. their snowy costumescontrasting strongly with their black visages and the jovial scenearound. the merry peals of laughter, as some unlucky wight upset a dish,or scattered the sauce in everybody's face within reach, indicatedlightness of heart, and merriment and conviviality seemed the order ofthe day.the imposing scene before me, after a long absence from social meetingsin civilized life, was very cheering, and, had it not been for theinertia i felt at the time, arising from a fatiguing journey and thetertian ague, i should have felt disposed to participate in the day'senjoyment. other considerations might, however, have prevented this: iwas a stranger to all around, and knew that i should be either subjectedto impertinent interrogations, or become the object of invidiousremark--this, in my debilitated state of health, i felt anxious toavoid, as calculated to impede my restoration. my joining the assembledparty might also have involved the chance of surveillance during mystay, which, before my departure for europe, i intended should be ratherprotracted. i may have been mistaken in this view, but, from thecharacter i had heard of the place, i felt justified in giving way tothe suspicion.i was beguiled into the erroneous idea that a sense of happiness andsecurity reigned in the assembled multitude, a notion quite fallacious,from attendant circumstances, as i shall directly explain. troops werestationed at a guard-house in the vicinity, and the sentinels paced infront of the building, as if in preparation for, or in expectation of, afoe, affording a great contrast to the apparent security of theinhabitants assembled in the square. before reaching charleston, i hadbeen apprised of the state of jeopardy the citizens were in from thepossibility of a recurrence of those scenes of anarchy enacted at theinsurrection of the slaves some time before--scenes which had filledevery heart with dismay, and spread ruin and desolation on every side.from what i could glean of that fearful drama, the slaves in thesurrounding districts, on a concerted signal from their confederates incharleston, made a descent upon the city, and, rendered furious by longoppression, proceeded to fire it and massacre the inhabitants. nolanguage can convey an accurate idea of the consternation of the whiteinhabitants, as it was described to me. the tocsin was sounded, thecitizens assembled, armed _cap-a-pie_, and after much hard fighting,the rebellion was crushed, and large numbers of the insurgents wereslain or arrested. then came the bloody hand of what was impiouslytermed retributive justice. a court, or sort of drum-head court-martial,not worthy to be called a trial, condemned numbers of the slaves todeath, and they were led out instantly to execution. my informant toldme that many a brave, noble-hearted fellow was sacrificed, who, underhappier circumstances, though in a cause not half so righteous, wouldhave been extolled as a hero, and bowed down with honours. many a humblehearth was made desolate, and, in the language quoted by my informant,"as in the days of the curse that descended on the people of theobdurate pharaoh, every house mourned its dead." still, there was astrong lurking suspicion that the _emeute_ of the negroes had only beentemporarily suppressed, and awful forebodings of fire and of bloodspread a gloom on the minds of all. this was the version given to me bya friend, of what he described as the most fearful rising amongst thenegroes ever before known in the southern states of america.as i passed up the long range of tables, the health of the president ofthe republic was responded to by the company. the cheers were deafening,and, what most surprised me was, that the negro waiters joinedheartily, i may say frantically, in it, and danced about like madcreatures, waving their napkins, and shouting with energy. some of theelder ones, i noticed, looked mournfully on, and were evidently not in agay humour, seeming a prey to bitter reflections. notwithstanding thecurse of slavery, which, like a poisonous upas, taints the very air theybreathe with the murdered remains of its victims, the white citizens ofthe south are extremely sensitive of their civil and political rights,and seem to regard the palladium of independence secured by theirprogenitors as an especial benefit conferred by the deity for their goodin particular. actuated by this mock patriotism (for it is nothingless), the citizens of the south omit no opportunity of demonstratingthe blessings they so undeservedly inherit, and which, if i am notmistaken, will, ere many years elapse, be wrested from them, amidst theterrible thunders of an oppressed and patient people, whose powers ofendurance are indeed surprising.leaving the square, i passed up king-street, at the top of which was myintended boarding-house. the shops in this fashionable resort are fittedout in good style, and the goods are of the best description. aftersunset the streets are often lined with carriages. the city lies flat,like the surrounding country, and, owing to this, is insalubrious;stagnant water collects in the cellars of the houses, and engenders apoisonous vapour, which is a fertile source of those destructiveepidemics, that, combined with other causes, are annually decimating thewhite population of the south of the american continent in all parts.at the top of king-street, facing you as you advance, is a largeprotestant episcopal church. i went there to worship on the followingsunday, but was obliged to leave the building, there being, it wasstated by the apparitor, no accommodation for strangers, a piece ofilliberality that i considered very much in keeping with theslave-holding opinions of the worshippers who attend it. this want ofpoliteness i was not, however, surprised at, for it is notorious, as hasbeen before observed by an able writer, that, excepting the church ofrome, "the members of the unestablished church of england--theprotestant episcopalian, are the most bigotted, sectarian, andilliberal, in the united states of america. being fully persuaded," tofollow the same writer, "that prelatical ordination and the three ordersare indispensable to their profession, they are, like too many of theirfellow professors in the mother country, deeply dyed with laudeanprinciples, or that love of formula in religion and grasping for powerwhich has so conspicuously shown itself among the oxford tractarians,and which, it is to be feared, is gradually undermining protestantconformity, by gnawing at its very heart, in the colleges of greatbritain." vital piety, or that deep sense of religious duty that impelsmen to avoid the devious paths of sin, and to live "near to god," is, iam inclined to believe (and i regret it, as a painful truth), by nomeans common in america. there are, however, many pastors who faithfullywarn their flocks of the dangers of the world, and who strenuouslyadvise their hearers to take warning lest they be over-captivated withthe "song of the syrens." these, however, i must say, are chiefly in thefree states, for i cannot regard southern ministers in any other lightthan pharisaical, while they continue openly (as is their constantpractice) to support from their pulpits the institution that is the mainstay of the southern states; i mean slavery. in my intercourse withserious individuals with whom i came in contact during my stay on thecontinent of america, the doctrines of dr. pusey and his confederateswere often referred to; and although i believe "the association forrestoring the ancient powers of the clergy, and the primary rites andusages of the church," does not acknowledge the protestant episcopaliansin america (owing, perhaps, chiefly to the invidious position thelatter stand in with the state, and the little chance of their viewsbeing universally embraced by them, but partially, no doubt, to theevangelical principles of most of the ministers officiating in thatchurch), yet the subject has excited much interest there, and the romishpropensities of many pastors plainly indicate that inherent love ofpower that invariably, and, it may be said, necessarily, developesitself in hierarchical institutions--a propensity that ought to beclosely watched by protestant lay congregations, as being not onlyinnovating and dangerous in its tendency, but calculated to foster thatsuperstition which is at once the fundamental principle of the faith ofthe city of the seven hills, and the power of that triple-crownedmonster, popery.i afterwards went into a large independent chapel in another part of thetown, where i was more courteously treated. here was a very eloquent andnoted preacher, a dr. groyard, from mobile. he was delivering a veryeloquent harangue, interspersed with touches of pro-slavery,sentimentalism and rhetorical flourish, the former especially directed tothe negroes in the gallery, when, suddenly, a cry of "fire! fire!" wasraised in the street. the learned doctor stood as if electrified, andthe instant after his hearers rushed pell-mell out of the chapel,amidst the shrieks of the females, and the consternation of the men,caused, without doubt, by a lurking suspicion of impending evil from thenegroes which i have before referred to. on ascertaining that the alarmwas caused by a house being on fire in the vicinity, the service wasabruptly terminated.the following day i continued my perambulations; to the left of theepiscopal church i have already mentioned, and surrounded by umbrageoustrees in a park-like enclosure, is the town-hall. i entered thisbuilding, where i found a bench of magistrates, the mayor of the citybeing amongst them, adjudicating on the cases brought before them. theseconsisted chiefly of negroes apprehended in the streets after nineo'clock the previous night; they were in all cases, except where theirowners paid the fine, sentenced to receive from ten to twenty lashes,which were administered at once by the city gaoler, in a yard at therear of a building, near which officers were in attendance for thepurpose. i must mention, in explanation, that one of the laws passeddirectly after the insurrection, was to prohibit negroes, on anypretence, to be out after nine, p.m. at that hour, the city guard, armedwith muskets and bayonets, patrolled the streets, and apprehended everynegro, male or female, they found abroad. it was a stirring scene, whenthe drums beat at the guard-house in the public square i have beforedescribed, preparatory to the rounds of the soldiers, to witness thenegroes scouring the streets in all directions, to get to their placesof abode, many of them in great trepidation, uttering ejaculations ofterror as they ran. this was an inexorable law, and punishment or finewas sure to follow its dereliction, no excuse being available, and asthe owners seldom submitted to pay the fine, the slaves were compelledto take the consequences, which, in the language that consigned them tothe cruel infliction, "consisted of from ten to twenty lashes, well laidon with a raw-hide," a murderous whip, which draws blood after the firstfew strokes, and is as torturing, i should imagine, as the russianknout, certainly proving in many instances as fatal as that odiousinstrument. the crowning severity of the enactments i have referred to,remains, however, to be told. so heinous in a negro, is the crime oflifting his hand in opposition to a white man in south carolina, thatthe law adjudges that the offending member shall be forfeited. this is,or was, quite as inexorable as the one i have before spoken of, and whenin charleston, i frequently, amongst the flocks of negroes passing andrepassing, saw individuals with one hand only. like the administrationof miscalled justice on negroes in all slave-holding states in america,the process was summary; the offender was arrested, brought before thebench of sitting magistrates, and on the _ex parte_[a] statement of hisaccuser, condemned to mutilation, being at once marched out to the rearof the building and the hand lopped off on a block fixed there for thepurpose. i noticed a block and axe myself in the yard of a building nearthe town-hall, and on looking at them closely, saw they were stainedalmost black, with what i have little hesitation in saying was humanblood. my conductor, however, tried to divert my attention from theobject, and knowing i was an englishman, refused to enter on thesubject.[footnote a: the writer was assured, when in charleston, that this wasthe case in five out of every six cases.]